I'm going to talk about how to know if
your newborn is getting enough to eat
one of the key ways that you can tell if
your baby is getting enough to eat is to
listen to what they're doing when
they're breastfeeding so when your baby
is on the breast and nursing you want to
listen for the baby swallowing it sounds
something like this and they do a suck
swallow breathe pattern so you want to
watch them as well as listen to them you
can see the babies jaw move backwards as
they swallow or if you can see their
throat you can see their throat moving
as they swallow so I'm going to be
listening for that swallow and after
some time into the breast feeding it
goes to a suck suck swallow suck suck
swallow as the milk flow slows down a
little bit the other way that you can
tell if your baby is getting enough is
to look at their wet and poopy diapers
now the baby will have very black poo
the first day or two after being born as
they start taking more in their bowel
movements will start to change from that
dark tori black to a more dark brown
kind of sticky greenish color to a
yellow bright yellow with a little bit
of seeds and some water enos to it you
see that transition with their BMS you
know that they're getting enough to eat
as well as you want to look for their
wet diapers as well a great way to look
at that is this little chart that shows
you what the different colors look like
the black Atari the green and the CD
yellow now a very wet diaper would have
up to 3 tablespoons of water in it and
with the new diapers it's very hard to
tell if they're actually wet so a little
trick you can use is to take one piece
of toilet paper a little square and put
it in your baby's diaper and that way
when they don't have a bowel movement
but just a wet diaper that one little
piece of tissue will be wet because the
super absorbency of the diapers won't
allow you to feel if it's wet or not if
you have any questions or concerns about
your baby's intake you should see your
pediatrician and I recommend that all
breastfed babies should see their
pediatrician on the second day
after discharge from the hospital
another way to know if your baby is
gaining weight well or taking food in
well is to keep a chart of some sort
that charts how many feeds they're
having how long they were at the breast
how many bowel movements they've had in
24 hours as well as how many wet diapers
they've had in 24 hours and at any time
that you have any concerns call your
pediatrician or a lactation consultant
for a weight check